Welcome to well dekho.com my name is
Dev so Gaz in today's video we are going to
talk about
what things you should keep in mind while renewing your car insurance, so
I will tell you some tricks and
tips through which whenever you are
renewing your car insurance,
you
can save a lot of money on it because you all
know that tax is our liability and
not an asset, yes, so no matter how much you
spend on it, ultimately it is
not going to increase, it is going to
reduce by applying depression on it,
so come on Gaz, first let us know that
whenever you get your car insured here,
whether you are getting it renewed or
taking fresh insurance, then
what are the components included in the insurance premium,
so see,
whenever you get your car insured, there are
mainly two types of
components in it, one is your third
party damage and one is vehicle  On damage, the
third party insurance here
is compulsory in India, meaning when you are taking your car
out of the showroom, then it
is compulsory to take third party insurance here, in which it is
not necessary that you are taking your own basic damage, but here we are
following a comprehensive plan in which the
third party liberty
means that if you hit someone, then whatever
loss that person incurs, the
insurance company will also pay it by making a claim here,
and if your car
also suffers any damage here, then that too will be completely insured for
you. So
what happens here, the premium of the third party
insurance is
set here,
you can take it from any company,
you will always get it fixed, as you
can see in front of my screen, the
third party liability in the premium here is
3416A. Now, the same thing,
if I check on the policy market
under any insurance, then you
can go down and see as written here  There
are 18 third party plans, so see here you
can see according to your vehicle model, the premium of all of them is being
shown to you, that is, the
insurance company which
offers you premium against the third party which is basically your liability, you are going to get premium for all of them
because it is not rectangle,
here it is set in exactly one way,
so you can see that
you are going to get 341416, it is just possible that
sometimes you may get one or two rupees, but
in all other cases you are going to get this thing here,
now our second
component is
comprehensive insurance, in which
your vehicle's on-damage is included, yes,
so it always defers here in the premium
and a lot of things are included in it, the
first component which
comes in it, through which you can save your premium,
sometimes you can also go into the loss
and you can also increase your premium,
so see that component
whose name is ID, see IDB
of gas  Simply put, this is simply a
value of your car, which is a
depression. Yes,
for this, I will
provide you a simple link in the description box.
This is a link to the General Insurance
Council. So, what can you do here? Simply enter your
state here.
Whatever is the year of manufacturing of your vehicle,
you can enter it. When did you buy it? Simply enter the month
here.
Yes, I got it released in November. The
maker is Maruti. Talking about the model,
here it is Vitara Brezza.
After the selector variant, it is plus. So, if
you click on show price here,
you can see that
its ID is also 493000 2017. So, whenever
you do insurance here, the
first thing you will always see is the
value of the car, which we also
call ID. Now, what is this value of the car?
What does your company do for every insurance? It
provides you a range.
By the way, look at the ID, there is
this much value after the dist here, plus the
percentage is also written here, as you can see
if your car is 6 months old, then
5% deduction will be made on it,
if it is four or five years old, then
almost 50% deduction will be made here,
every insurance company has that range, you
can also select your ID here
and on top of that, your premium is also
varied here, this means that tomorrow
if my car gets stolen
or gets lost, for example, it gets damaged
or someone steals it, then
basically the money that the insurance company is going to give me against the tax will be
only Rs. 6 lakh
67 thousand, it will not give more than that, even if I come to
sell it in the secondary market, I have not driven it much, anyway, the
value of my car as of today is something like 800000,
but
if this insurance company sells my car here  If it gets
lost or stolen by a thief,
I will get only ₹67,000. So, you should
always choose your car value very carefully here.
You should see how much car you have used
and if I lose my car here,
what is its replacement cost. It can also be given
here. Also, it is not possible to assume the
value of your car. Your car had an
ex-showroom value of 12 lakhs, it has been 5
years now, and you want to make it
8 lakhs or 10 lakhs. This is also
not possible. Here, the insurance
company sets a range for you.
You can see for example that
if I take it to the policy market also, then the
maximum value it is offering me here is
₹629,400. So,
here, every insurance company will
give you different values ​​and based on this
value, your premium
amount will also be different here.
So, for this, I would like to
give you a simple tip that
if
the value of your car is good in the secondary market, then you should always
set out the maximum ID value that you are getting.
But suppose you have run your car so low
that its value has completely gone down. No
one is ready to pay for it in the secondary market.
And whatever the insurance company is giving you,
you are getting a good amount of money. So,
in that case, you can also reduce your ID a little bit here. There is
no problem in that too. But the thing that happens when you insure your car is called
NCB discount. Now, what is this NCB
discount?
When you insure your car here,
what happens at the time of renewal? If you have not claimed it for the last year, then the
insurance company offers you a discount.
And every insurance company
offers you a discount. So, there is a
clause here that if
your claim is free in the first year, then you will get 20% discount and the
second year will be claim free.  You will
get 25, in the third year you will get 35,
after that maximum it can go up to 50% here, so
as if you look in front of my screen,
you can see my premium backup here on the screen,
though we have a basic free of ₹10000,
but within that I am getting a discount of 45% here
because I have
not filed any claim here for the last 3 to 4 years,
this thing in hand also gets cut, that is why many times what happens is
that people
start filing claims on small things, if there is no expense of
more than ₹5000 inside your vehicle, suppose
some part of the vehicle gets
broken, its replacement
cost is only 4000 rupees, then what would many people do, they would have
claimed under the insurance, so do
not make this mistake because if you make a
claim in the insurance, then your
NCV discount will definitely go away,
along with that there is your filing charges
which no one basically knows about, so
gas  These are file charges, they range
from ₹1000 to ₹2000 and
here all the companies charge it
depends on your CC of D engine, if
your engine is below ₹1500 then it charges
₹1000, if it is above ₹1500
then it charges ₹2000 and this
is a fixed set of charges that brother this much will be mandatory for you
directly, meaning whenever
you go to make an insurance claim,
you can pay ₹1000 in the name of file charges or
else ₹2000 will be charged, meaning you do
not have any other solution than that, so
if your expenses are very
low then you should never put the vehicle under claim, only
when there is a big expense, put the
vehicle under claim here.
I would like to discuss with you guys the point which is here in
Advance. Yes,
now there are many things in Advance
which is called Zero Dep Policy, there is an invoice to
value, like I would
like to show you guys, as you can see what Zero
Dep here simply means, suppose
your car's cover gets damaged, then there is a
50% discount on the glasses etc., so
if you do not adopt Zero Dep here, suppose the
cost of glass is ₹10000, so
here, like if glass is installed inside your car,
then if you have
not taken Zero Dep, then you will have to pay ₹5000 from your pocket
and the insurance company will provide only ₹5000 here,
but
if you have taken Zero Dep here, then
what happens under Zero Dep, you are 100% covered, that is, the
insurance company will sponsor the discount as well,
but there is another problem in this,
like gas, you have Zero Dep.  If you add on here, then
your premium for car
insurance will be almost
double, you can
add it here, so you can see that
if there is a plan of Rs 22000, then there
is cover of Rs 9 to 10000, only zero is pressed here, yes, you
can see that if you want to increase your premium from Rs 60 to 8000, then as soon as
you select zero, it gets
increased here, let's talk about
zero type or which one should not be selected, so
gas, if you feel that you are
driving comfortably here,
you have not filed any claim etc. here for the last four years,
plus gas, if you
feel that your car is so old that
if anything happens, then it is okay,
I will pay some money from my pocket here, so
in that case
you can ignore zero here, but if
you have just got your car released, it has been just
one year  It has been 2 years and
you have a shining car, so
definitely you should consider the gas here as it is zero,
definitely you should
consider it here, there are many
advances here but I think all of them are
useless advances, like 24*
7 roadside protection, you will not even know,
it might have been added in your policy, so
never add it, it
means give some money, for example, you have given ₹200,
₹300 extra in this premium, so
what will happen with that, if your car breaks down anywhere,
you call the
insurance company, they will basically
provide you road assistant, engine
protection cover, if the engine breaks down, then
you can take a cover on it which is
not covered under normal insurance,
NCB protector, what does it mean,
despite the insurance you have put in, you will keep getting
MCB etc. every year, after that there is key
and lock replacement,
consumables, daily allowance,
apart from this there is another iron here which is  It
is good but
you can take it here only for new vehicles, which is the
invoice price, it means that the amount of pressure on your vehicle does
not matter here, even your ID
value will not matter in this, if
you cover these bases here then the
insurance which you have done is the exchange
showroom value of your vehicle, the same is
what the insurance company gives you by claiming here,
if your vehicle gets stolen then there is nothing
for it here, there are additional
covers which are compulsory, there is
an additional cover in it, that is
personal accident cover up to Rs 15 lakh,
gas here in front of the screen is of
₹15 lakh, so if you want to turn it off then
it means if you have taken
any health insurance or
term plan, in that your
accidental personal accidental cover
is already RD, then in that case you
can turn it off, but it is compulsory, it does
not cost much, so you should
make sure that if you already have this thing  Only then should
you turn it off, otherwise
you should always keep it on here.
You said that I should talk about personal accident cover in this, so
basically what it does is if you have an
accident, then
in that case, whatever medical or
hospital bills you may incur, they will be
covered for you. Plus, if you die etc., then
in that case also, here the
100% compensation of Rs. 15 lakhs is
given to your family. There is
another add-on here called voluntary
discount. What does it mean? For example, suppose
I have added ₹2500 here,
I will understand with an example.
Suppose your premium is ₹500.
Now what did you do here,
you took a deductible amount of ₹5000
and due to this the insurance
premium went from ₹5500 to ₹5100,
meaning you got a discount of ₹400 and against that
you have taken a voluntary discount.  It
is dedictable, you have done ₹5000. Now whenever you
go to get it cleaned here, suppose the bill is
of ₹10000, so what will happen here,
how much did you do, voluntary deductible, that was ₹
5000, so you have to pay ₹5000
from your own pocket, no matter how much the bill is,
you will have to pay ₹5000 and the remaining
amount will be included by the insurance company here, so
if you do this, then you
get an additional discount in the premium as well, but if your car is
brand new, then do not choose it, if it is
very old, then in that
case, to save the premium,
you can consider it here, apart from this, the
next point you have to keep in mind is
cashless eleven, what does it simply mean,
if you are making your plan, suppose
I want to switch my insurance with a company which was running earlier, then
you should also consider this that
whichever company you are searching with
How many cashless garages are there in total?
You might have a
favorite garage near you where you always give your car. Is
that garage covered under it
or not? Because what does cashless garage mean?
Whenever you
file a claim for your car here, you don't have to spend any money from your pocket.
What will happen under cashless garage is that it is tied up
with the insurance company and
whatever your claim amount is, the
insurance company will pay it directly to the
garage. You do
n't need to read into it. Whereas what happens in reverse here is that
first spend more from your pocket,
then go to the insurance company and file a
claim. You should
also look at the claim settlement ratio here. Whenever you
switch any company,
you should not look at it less in most of the companies in India.
You will get a claim settlement ratio of almost above 95%
here.
But still, you should consider these things a
little bit as well,
whichever company you are considering.
You should also look at its brand value to see
what people are saying about it.
You can check out its reviews.
They have apps on the Play Store. Every
insurance company can go there and see
what people are saying about it.
For this, you should keep one more point
in mind if you are thinking of switching companies.
Do the already existing insurance companies give you the option to
process claims through video or
not?
What happens sometimes is that your car has been
damaged on the road. Now the
garage is 200 kilometers away from
where your car is parked.
This is my
experience. By the time you
take your car there, what
happens sometimes is that the reviews, basically, of
making these choices, say that
after your car was damaged, you have thrown it out
or modified something inside it. So
what can you do?
If your company provides this, then
you can get it done on time.  You can make a video
and instantly upload the video of the vehicle on
their app and get it
registered here clean simply, which means
you will not need to go to the Garj,
your claim will already be registered here,
after that you
can easily take it inside the Garj and in case the insurance company rejects
your claim, the
chances of it are greatly reduced here, so
I have told you some
tips, whenever you renew your vehicle
insurance here, then
you must keep these tips in mind,
so gas, like this video,
please subscribe the channel, if you have any,
please tell us in the comment box, thank you gas,
thank you very much